# vector-rb
Vector.rb, also know as Ruby Jetpack, is a program written in Ruby designed to help new and aspiring programmers how to learn to code.

It features a 3-step 'trimester' learning style and encourages the programmers using the application to develop methods of study and practice that will help them to develop and create any type of application they wish. The program is designed to treat prospective coders as students to be taught and trained, but also offers plenty of hand-on and real life application for the concepts to be taught. The program has several tracks that are setup to help new coders learn exactly what they need to know to start developing the type of content that they want.


First Trimester - Learn the basics of programming and Ruby
  This first section is designed to teach absolute newbies the basics of programming. It will include a small portion of the history of programming as well as basic programming concepts that apply to programming language in general. It will then teach the specifics of Ruby and offer a comparison to other languages. At the end of this trimester, the student will be able to choose where they would like to further their development; Desktop Application Publishing, Web-App Technologies, Mobile App Development, or Video Game Design. This will provide them with a set of recommended ruby language versions as well as some supplemental languages. In the second trimester they will have to learn at least one of these languages and pass an evaluation before moving on.
  
Second Trimester - Learning how to learn a language
  The first part of this trimester will be focused on teaching more of the Ruby language and more programming terminology. It will also help to teach the students exactly what information they will need to gather in order to start programming in another language. This will be helpful in the second half of this trimester and in their future as programmers.
  
  The second part of the trimester will focus on teaching the details of specific languages as they pertain to Ruby. This will allow the, to gain a greater understanding of programming as a whole and give them a powerful toolkit to use as they move forward wit their own projects or into the workforce. These languages include but are not yet limited to: CRuby(C-interpreted Ruby), Jruby(JVM-based Ruby), Opal.rb(Javascript-transpiled Ruby), HTML5(latest implementation of HTML), CSS3(latest implementation of CSS), jQuery(most popular Javascript iteration), Java(most compatible language), C(fastest most relied on language). After learning more about these languages through code analysis and hands on projects, the student will be evaluated.
  
Third Trimester - Learning about platforms and deployment
  This final section of Vector.rb is designed to help walk the students through the steps necessary to; create a workspace enviornment for building applications, learn a new type of development framework, setup and use various publishing tools, setup and manage open-sourced and crowd-sourced enviornments, understand and implement various types of application deployment. The next step after this will depend on the path chosen by the students. There will be walkthroughs available for each of the 3 tracks they selected previously which will show them how to use one or more of the following development/deployment technologies: RubyMotion, Warbler, Bundler, ElectronJS, Node.js, Rails, RhoMobile, Unity, UnrealEngine, MySQL, FTP, Application Packaging, Web Publishing, Alpha/Beta Testing, Custom Engine Creation and Cross-Platform Development.
The students will always be able to go back and learn previously skipped languages in order to progress on alternate paths, should they choose to do so.
  

After completing the program to the full extend of the application the students should me well-vesred in programming lingo and should have a good understanding of how they want to use their newfound programming skills. Support will be continuously offered via hosted documentation, group chat rooms, and direct correspondance via email. I am hoping to be able to get mentors to support the upcoming programmers one the program has been fully fleshed out.
